we've been set up to fail AI didn't do
that people did that here's a tool for
us to solve our problems ourselves now
here we go
get the producer singer rapper this man
does it all seven time Grammy winner one
of the industries's biggest names man
that's lyrical and we started the Black
Eyed Peas no one believed in US
now we're playing Super Bowls World Cups
Grammys you have to be hyper creative
you can't grow anything without it but
there's a cost to creativity right
what's it like to be in your head are
you always thinking analyzing everything
get it get it go go make it make it
that's not good that's not healthy why
you make errors you hurt people I
remember I got into like a a dark period
when I
felt something that I've never felt
before just like
distortion
people want you to fail but the anxiety
comes when you're worried about what
people think when it's things that are
happening that you didn't control
you have to be optimistic
you have to arm yourself with optimism
and purpose
[Music]
that's what it's about that path was the
hardest path in my life
[Music]
this is a window into the mind of a
creative a Divergent an entrepreneur
artist and visionary someone we all know
but at the same time someone we don't
really know at all if you're a creative
an artist an entrepreneur or someone
with big ideas for the future or just
someone that's struggling to balance
your professional Ambitions with your
personal Pursuits
this conversation was meant to find you
enjoy
[Music]
I am fascinated with people that is why
I started doing this many years ago
because I have I've come to learn about
myself that I have a real desire to
understand people because from that I
think I can understand myself because I
think at the kind of foundational level
we're all quite similar as human beings
because we're all related if we go back
far enough so in a pursuit to understand
you I guess my first question is
um what is what is the context of will
that I need to know to understand the
man that sat here in front of me today
the earliest context the kind of kitchen
that Will was
um
was was conceived in was was cooked in
at the earliest age
you write songs no I don't I write a lot
but I don't write because you like uh I
get interviewed a lot but
very rarely do you get interviewed by
wordsmiths
um the kitchen I was stewed in I cooked
in it's pretty uh
I like the visual of that
um because the chef would be my mom
and the kitchen will be
the ghettos of East Los Angeles Boyle
Heights specifically
and that was encouragement
acknowledgment
of our individual I say our my family
like we all have our little superpower
and my superpower was creativity
and creativity has always been my
currency when I had no money I clearly
was like oh look Ma look what I made
Willy that's really good you really like
that mod yeah and I would she would
encouragement goes a long way
and then that type of encouragement from
a mom that helped create self-belief
fearlessness to express to share to go
in class and solve problems or raise my
hand I got the answer to that
um
that's really what fueled
fueled me is my mom
let Willy solve it
will he try to fix that
you know this radio is broken try to fix
it
that type of stuff my mom
salute did she know that you were
creative or was she just um putting wind
in whatever so you'd pulled up my mom
was creative my mom still is creative
she had her sewing machine she would
make her clothes to go to school
that's why most of the clothes I make is
still
um you know one-offs two of two offs I
like wearing
things that no one has because that's
how I grew up
we would go to the thrift store buy
dollar clothes or 50 Cent shirts there
will always be too big for me my mom
would fix them and turn old into new
that's that's how we lived you know will
he go to the store take this food stamp
buy me a 25 cents bubble gum
um get 75 cents back
um and then you go to different stores
do the same thing so now my mom has
coins that she could go and buy other
things with food stamps because with
food stamps you only could buy food you
can't buy needles you can't buy thread
you can't buy fabric you can't buy
appliances you only could buy food so
take this dollar give me 25 cents gum
which is food 75 cents chains back go to
different stores and do that now let's
go and buy other things
and so she'll buy those other things and
she'll make stuff for us so my mom has
always been like super ultra creative so
my mom is my biggest inspo
I've heard you refer to her as being
your mum and your dad
yeah in your household
so when you when you grew up in a
in a household whether there's only the
mom I'm like every Father's Day Happy
Father's Day Mom
thank you Willie and happy Mother's Day
Mom
in those contexts it's easy for a kid to
go one of two ways though
and I think that's what people often
don't realize is when you're in a
context where outside of the house
there's a lot of Temptations either way
but inside the house it takes a really
really strong mother if she is a single
mother to make sure she creates her own
universe so that those kids can end up
in a different place and that's what I
kind of read from a lot of the stories
of your mother is that rigor and
discipline and those values yeah there
was a we had this next door neighbor in
the projects and she couldn't read or
write
and then
people used to make fun of her
and my mom was like
now if we all went to Japan
and we had to go out there and survive
are we not smart yes we're smart
could we survive out there yes we could
can we raise kids and raise families to
go out and do awesome things in Japan in
Japan yes we could
but we will all go to Japan not being
able to read or write
so the stigma that we put on folks that
can't read and write
could they read people
yep
can they write a path to
raise folks to go out into the world to
do awesome things yes
so we value
my mom always valued
Humanity at its purest and people's
intents
um and the things they want to
accomplish before like you know cliche
setbacks or and it's it was awesome that
we were raising all Mexican neighborhood
right so most people didn't redirect
which was beautiful it was beautiful you
know
I love I love being raised in in East
L.A
and uh We've
we fit we fit it in is that right fit it
in we because I was going to say fat in
it's like it's a fit there you go there
it goes read it right for me
no I'm joking
what was your your yourself yourself
story at that age like what did will
think of will who did you think you were
and where did you think you were going
in life when you were like 14 oh 14 it
was said yeah 14 I wanted to do music
I had these wraps that I used to write
and I had these demos that I used to
make and I would go to school and I
would give my demos to my my friends
uh one of my friends his name is Stefan
Gordy his dad was Barry Gordy from Old
Town and I'm like yo give this to your
dad check out my demo
my sister had Teddy Ruxpin it's like
this little teddy bear that had a
cassette in its belly
and my mom gave that to my sister for
Christmas and for me she gave me like a
boombox
it to play the cassettes
and she got herself a stereo
and that stereo had two cassettes and
came with headphones
and so I got my mom's records and I had
a record player and two tape debts and a
headphone
and I don't know what told me to take
the headphone put it in the microphone
Jack
take my sister's Barbie rockers tape
put tape over
the left side of the cassette tape
record over it get my mom's record play
the favorite part press unpause record
pause it when my favorite part was over
play it again and make a loop put the
tape and the play put another
sisters um my sister's Teddy Ruxpin tape
put it in there do the same thing record
over it now press play on my Loop that's
for three minutes and wrap over it
take the the Teddy Ruxpin tape with my
newly
formed song over Loops stereo Loops put
it in Teddy Ruxpin press play and make
Teddy Ruxpin rap so my mom was like you
did that boy I'm like yeah Ma look
she was like you should take that to
class for your for a show and tell
they were like wow William uh at that
point in time I was William wow William
that's really cool you did that yeah I
did that the song was whatever
um for a 10 year old
um so
then you graduate sixth grade
at 12.
so from from 10 11 12 it was clear that
my elementary school
I had like a different level of
creativity so when I went to Junior High
School
um it was clear what my superpower was
I was creative and I wanted I wanted to
uh express myself in that in that realm
were you confident whatever however you
define that and what I guess what I mean
by confident is like securing oneself
and
confident in their abilities and social
um value I guess
it happened in in three steps I didn't
know we were poor
and then I found out we were poor
and I found out we were poor when one
year my teacher Miss Rich she said you
got to come to school
with canned food and box food so we
could give to the poor families
and I come home I'm like Mom my homework
assignment this tonight is to go to
school I gotta pick through the
cupboards and give canned foods and
boxed foods from a homework assignment
tomorrow
she's like well you ain't going to
school with no food like Mom but I'm I'm
gonna fail the class
I'm gonna I'm gonna get a fail on my on
my grade I have to turn this in well I
guess you gonna get a fail because you
ain't leaving this house with no food
so I go to school empty-handed I don't
you know complete the assignment
then I see my the rich white kids coming
up the corridor I'm like hey what's up
Brent what up Brad what you guys doing
here yeah we came here to bring the food
to the poor family
I'm like oh really so I started walking
with them and we go to my house
make weight
that food's for us
we qualified
and the school
gave us that food
and that's when I realized we were poor
so I go back to school
and they made fun of me for a couple of
days William he's William's poor we
dropped the food off in his house
this one girl comes up to me she's like
William are you poor how can you be poor
if you always wear suits to school
because my mom used to make us wear
suits so it wasn't like a uniform school
it was like dressed the way you want to
dress but my mom put me in suits every
day
and so the kids were like why do you
always wear suits to school how could
you be poor
and my mom would say you ain't going to
school with no play clothes you're going
you ain't going to school to play you're
going to school to learn so you put on
these like you go to church to learn
about God you're going to church to
learn about
you know life and so put the suit on
so although there were like four or five
people
that were saying I was the poor kid that
got the food but then the rest of the
kids were like no William's not poor
look if you always wear suits to school
you guys are lying
that became my cloth to express yourself
because
that that drape
that attire
um separated me from the gang separated
me from your poor you're not you're
you're part of the have-nots
um
and uh expression
just wanted to express sometimes mom
used to say uh
Willie what you doing nothing get your
butt over here what's wrong ma what did
I say about saying the word nothing
even if you sit there breathing say I'm
breathing or you're thinking about
something you don't got no business
saying you doing nothing
so we would have to say what we were
doing we couldn't say nothing
because you're never doing nothing even
if you're breathing even if you're hard
speeding whatever you're thinking of
you know what you thinking about nothing
well you need to start thinking about
something
we could she didn't settle for that
you know so let's talk about creativity
then because this is what you're really
I mean this is one of the many things
you're really really known for so is it
possible to become more creative
and how does that happen
okay
let's say it's 1983.
yeah
let's go to the past now I was minus
nine or if you're 1993 okay I was one
if you're in 1993 and you're a musician
the way to be more creative is to look
at Prince
look at Prince
because Prince was like the ultimate
creative Force
and the way Prince became creative is he
looked at Stevie Wonder
he's like wait he plays the keyboards
the drums the bass he writes the songs
okay and
Stevie Wonder was Ultra creative because
he looked at Marvin Gaye
he looked at Ray Charles
but looking from a different perspective
obviously because Stevie Wonder can't
see
but he he uh
felt
he was inspired by he was motivated by
so if you want to be creative
more creative
you have to one compete
you have to be
super analytical on yourself
and who you're competing against you
have to be elevated
you have to take yourself from where you
are now and position yourself and see
the terrain
you have to be
curious
humble
and a predator all at the same time you
have to do all those things
to be ultra hyper creative
you have to be humble till you walk in
the room and you attract because nobody
wants a freaking sin
you know perspectives to a dick
to an arrogant ass no at some point in
time if you're too arrogant people stop
sending you information
people don't they want to see you they
want you to fail
and they start sending you information
for you to fail
when you're arrogant so you got to get
rid of that be humble
you have to be you have to be a predator
you have to walk into a room
ready to eat
but
but you can't eat everything
because then
you have to be selective on what you eat
what about hard work hard work hard work
is relative because to some well this is
not hard work this is just what I do my
pinky to my lung
my pinky thinks my lung is working hard
because I have to tell my pinky when to
move
my mind
my mind ain't have has no control over
my lungs
my lungs are working involuntarily
if I tell my lungs to stop
I could do that
but then it's gonna kick in on its own
my heart is even more involuntary I
can't will like okay okay stop stop now
stop you've been beaten for freaking 48
years I mean you need to take a break
that's what it does
you cannot yeah you can meditate you
could slow your heart rate down but you
can't make it stop bro
so hard work is relative
to watch Oregon or who or what
environment you're working in
and then there's
tools
what tools do you need to be hyper
creative
you need humble heart
you need a fierce competitive Predator
type of
um Vibe as well
you have to be disciplined because you
can't eat everything
you have to be elevated you have to see
everything
and you have to be magnetic you have to
attract everything
what about failure and then also the
goals of creativity because one of the
things I think the two things are kind
of linked to fear failure and then what
is the goal of creativity because if I
if my if I set myself I've just started
learning to DJ about a year ago and if
my goal is to become the biggest DJ in
the world that might make me fearful
it's a huge mountain to climb and that
might make me scared of failures so I
might not start but real creative scenes
from what I've observed they don't seem
to really give much of a [__] about the
outcome as much as other people do
and I've so what is that you know what
is the right goal for creativity and how
does what role does fear and failure
play in being a good creative
the reason why you're fearful is because
you're worried about what people think
it's true
and if you're worried about what people
think
then maybe true creative is not what you
are
you just got the costume of creative on
because creativity
when you're creating and it's like a
a rinse
whether the rents a sponge absorbs
and eventually you got to rinse it out
so it can absorb more do you think a
sponge is like oh man I don't want
people to judge how I'm rinsing myself
out oh I'm gonna make a mess
sponge ain't thinking about that people
like are you talking about SpongeBob
well like no bro I'm talking about just
like the metaphor of absorbing and
rinsing or let's say
vomiting
it's powerful
you can't control it
and that's creativity
and some people would be like yeah
that's right will you'll the stuff you
make is like vomit you make me no if
that's what you think I don't care I
have to let it out
it's like [__]
now people could say yeah well I am your
[__] is like [__] but I'm gonna ask you
which farmer
does not need manure
to grow and cultivate
you need it
you cannot Farm without it
you can't grow anything without it
it's like cycles of life
and creativity is that
the more the moment you start worried
about people's opinion then you
definitely by default are not a creative
you're doing it for the wrong reasons
what is the right reasons
to let it out
to rinse yourself
it's like you absorb you rinse nothing
you said is about the impact it then has
on the world or others well no that's a
different tool right
and then once you once you really once
you master it like I absorbed I rinse
and that becomes therapeutic and you see
in how that helps you
then you're like wow wait if it's
helping me
well then I can
be strategic
and I could do something to help others
first it has to help you
you make sense of the world and whatever
it is you're doing whether you're
painting you're cooking you're teaching
you're tutoring you're making songs
you're making dance you're writing films
you're doing journals whatever it is
you're doing you would have absorbed the
world and rinsed
and contributed
in some
way that brings progress to yourself and
others quick one before we get back to
this episode just give me 30 seconds of
your time
two things I wanted to say the first
thing is a huge thank you for listening
and tuning in to the show week after
week means the world to all of us and
this really is a dream that we
absolutely never had and couldn't have
imagined getting to this place
secondly it's a dream where we feel like
we're only just getting started and if
you enjoy what we do here please join
the 24 of people who watch this channel
regularly and have hit that subscribe
button means more than I can say and if
you hit that subscribe button here's a
promise I'm going to make to you I'm
gonna do everything in my power to make
this show as good as I can now and into
the future we're going to deliver the
guests that you want me to speak to and
we're going to continue to keep doing
all of the things you love about the
show
thank you thank you so much back to the
episode relationships
what role do you because I I didn't get
into relationship until I was like
really until I was like 28.
again I thought it was a hindrance on my
chances of professional success and then
at some point I felt lonely
I didn't know what loneliness really was
but I just could feel something what's
the point
you know
when you have this Mission I'm I'm
Mission driven
I'm like what are we trying to
accomplish what am I trying to
accomplish
10 years from now
what's my Five-Year Plan was my ten year
plan
how did I do my last five year tenure
and uh
if there's someone that can help you
that you could
relate to
to help you ship this vision from the in
your mind
to the Future
I have a different understanding of
relationship
It's like because you want to relate
with someone
that you could ship things with
whether you're shipping in a PCU to the
Future
or you're shipping a piece of you
to the Future
and if you could relate to that person
and help you on your journey
that's awesome
it all depends on what you're shipping
what's it like to be in your head I know
that's hard because you've never been in
someone else's but you know you probably
figured out from conversations that you
think in a different way
yeah so
thinking a lot I think a lot
I'm always thinking
not about nothing I'm always thinking
about something
like
it's very rare that I'm just sitting
around like
oh wow look at that Chandelier
I'm thinking like I wonder how they made
how much that weigh what a material is
that like I'm always thinking and
analyzing everything I'm like a scanner
every time
every moment
and
that can be overbearing
to somebody you're in a relationship
that could close them up
that can like wait wait
that
that's not good
That's not healthy
and uh
and I realized that
took a long time for me to realize that
where
I gotta turn that off
I didn't know there was an off switch is
that one no there's not an off switch
but there is like a volume nah volume
number okay
um but uh
I don't know how to not
like wait that say that again
I don't know how to just take
especially with somebody you're in a
relationship with
I don't know how to take like
oh we're just we're just at the beach
the whole time
you don't want to go down to explore to
see how deep this ocean is
you just want to chill here on the beach
I can't listen let's go down to the
let's go to try to find the crevices
let's go down deep deep deep and that's
saying no let's just sunbathe it's just
stay on the beach
and that's cool
if I'm not a beach guy
I'm a deep diver
I'm a freaking
I like the abyss I like to be like yo
look what in the what look at that I
like that I like to freaking explore I
like to research
I like to explain microwave this doesn't
make any sense at all let's try to make
sense of it all let's try to make sense
of it
like I like that
I love that
you have ADHD right you've referred to
it as the gift of ADHD it's funny
because I'm trying to figure out your
relationship with Stillness and silence
doesn't seem I mean from what you said
we're assuming that an electron and a
proton and a neutron all have the same
tasks and goals
so the electron that I am
the concept of Stillness and silence
is you have no purpose
because the whole purpose of an electron
is to do that does it close to that
though that seems exhausting the cost of
that if you're coming from the
perspective of the proton looking at the
electron was around it
but you got to know who you are in the
equation
I'm the electron
that's cool you kick it there Neutron
State it's cool you still but the proton
has something the electron doesn't have
in the Pro and the electron has
something the protein doesn't approach
yeah have but they're not supposed to do
the same thing and they both have costs
and like they have a good like a light
side and a DOT or a cost and a gift do
they so I think of like I've been I'm I
would say I'm more whizzing around
electron generally so I'm just playing
devil's advocate here because when I've
when I've come into my girlfriend's
proton world where things may be a
little bit Stiller there has been gifts
to that there's been gifts to that and I
hear everything you're saying about to
be in a relationship you need to be able
to lay on the beach I can't lay on the
beach but I know that's what my
girlfriend wants of me she wants me to
be present with her and not to think
about the future and to think about
where we are right now yeah but there's
a way to do it from an electronic
perspective how
um
is to really look at the word
relationship and relate
even though you can't relate
you have to uh
have empathy
understanding of what their contribution
is and support and
and be there
so it from the perspective of the
electron it is still
for the electron you think the electrons
like man I'm tired I'm tired of whizzing
around you the whole time that's not
what what's going on in the electron's
mind yeah to the electron I'm still and
I am still going around
it's all the perspective of the word
steel
there's Steel
and then there's constant still
which still are you are you the one
that's still
and you're just like Steel s-t-e-e-l
and your Steel
or are you still
and that is still moving
still at in it no matter how you look at
it it's still still
because from the perspective and the
empathy of that electron moving
it is still
from the from the POV of what who's
viewing it it's moving
but the electron I am still
and I will still be moving and
gravitating around you and I could still
think and add to your life
as I do the things that I do to add to
life
but the moment you stop doing what
you're doing
then it's no longer a relationship
because they can't relate to what you're
doing and what you're adding and now
you're conforming and changing
when Maybe
that's not what you're supposed to do
or maybe you didn't you weren't candid
and forthcoming enough to make true
understanding to stand under
the circumference
and know the ledge of what it is you do
together
you speak of almost like a recent
Epiphany when you say like realizing
that there was this off button
even though you don't think the offense
necessarily there
where do you sit now with the concept of
finding like a life partner and getting
married and having kids and all that
stuff and is there work to be done is it
finding the right person or is it an
inward piece of work that needs to be
done in your view and is it something
you you want
I want to have kids I I'm I'm going to
be an awesome dad
if you were to ask me this uh
10 years ago
I would have a different answer really
why has it changed and what is it now
and what was it then
that you don't do a family until you
completed the ultimate
or my version of ultimate
my my version of ultimate is to
be able to be of assistance
and
help
and provide
and service
folks that resemble
the lifestyle
that I live the hardships that I lived
without having to ever raise money ever
again
10 years ago yeah yeah
what I know now
I would have had a kid you would have
had a kid 10 years ago if I know what I
know now yes
why I was moving too fast and I thought
the only way to get up the mountain is
to move the way I moved when I was at
the foothill
to get to the middle of the mountain
and now that I'm up the mountain
you're thinking that I'm doing I'm gonna
do it by myself still
and
the purpose of me getting up the
mountain was to take care of my mom
and that was my motivation that was my
guess that was my electricity that was
my energy
to take care of my family
hunter-gatherer
to go out and bring back to the Village
I didn't know
what I didn't know then now that I know
would I be able to get up the mountain
with family and Offspring to take the
information that I have and pass it on
have knowledge here
have knowledge of my DNA
who do I pass it to
if something were to happen to me
like it's like different type of
knowledge that you just don't say
someone it's like it's in me it store to
me somebody gave me this your mom
and my grandma and my Grandma's Grandma
and my grandmother's grandma
that person had a different life
my grandma was born in 1920. my
Grandma's Grandma was born in 18
something
that means it hadn't wow
that person was working in the field in
somebody's Factory in some unknown
company
but in America just called it slavery
like that wasn't that long ago so but
that information was passed on to me
passed on to me resilience tolerance
hope living in a different world
so your Offspring can have a different
life
I'm a recipient of that
but when you're hustling and bustling
you think
that oh no I gotta wait to the ultimate
was I wrong
now that I can look back at my
he was wrong
but I was right
still wrong
would I be a
would I be further along in my journey
a little bit more organized
yes why because something would have
forced me to be organized
it's not just for myself now
even though it was never for myself
it was always for my mom and my family
I would have had even more regiment
I would have even more streamlined
aerodynamics
so that could you know you know cut
through corners
you know
and uh
make tighter turns keep the downwinds
it would be a little bit more
aerodynamic
had I you know so yeah
nothing will stop you if you have kids
probably just going to motivate you more
but I couldn't see that back then
um
but I'm gonna be an uh awesome dad when
I'm when I'm a dad
but I want to be a full-time dad
and I realize that I don't have to be
the
the the the the the juggler
um anymore
before I had to do it all because no one
really believed and so I always had to
prove
I had to like
be the creative understand business sit
in the business meetings co-manage
come up with the artwork execute the
artwork learn illustrator learn
Photoshop do the album artwork hand it
off to somebody else to fine tune what
you sketched up
um
plan the tour with your man like I had
to do it all
but probably because a part of me didn't
trust
that someone cared as much as I cared
but
now
I don't have to do it like that anymore
I've got to a point where now I could
assemble teams and fun teams
now I'm the financier
I don't have to worry about somebody's
financing me
that's a different that's like that's an
exhale
and so with that exhale if I when I'm a
dad
I could be a
I could be
um a full-time dad
as my understanding of full-time which
I'll still be I'll still be working just
not working the way I'm working now
I don't know I don't I don't want to
work the way I used to work why uh not
anymore
not anymore
I was a proton for the planet and just
going around the planet
um
the longest I've been home
since 1998.
was all of the majority of 2002.
and then the majority of 2020 like
everyone else
outside of those two years
the longest that I've been in one place
it's been two months
since 1998
oh gotta go oh I'm here for two months
see you later be back two weeks gotta go
got and I've been doing that since night
like I don't want to do that no more so
you're speaking to a change perspective
and I'm wondering because for me in my
life there had to be a symptom there had
to be something I noticed where I go do
you know what I'm doing something not
right here so for me I talked about it
being that kind of almost this feeling
of loneliness that I didn't realize was
the feeling of loneliness it was this
emptiness in my chest when you go to the
office seven days a week and then you
look at your phone and go who are my
friends like who is my partner like
tuning out of survival mode tuning out
of that and tuning into like Thrive like
how do I thrive as a human being is what
made me shift so really I'm curious
about the symptoms that you notice in
your life that made you go I don't want
to do that anymore no but I never had
that really what's your explain no I had
my best friends that I grew up with
and we lived our Dream to the highest
level
imaginable
kids that were broke
Apple my best friend who came from the
Philippines who I Started Black Eyed
Peas with
he comes from a province in the
Philippines where he pumped water out
the ground he washed his clothes on the
riverbed
he farmed rice with his pet bison
he did he experienced a different level
of poverty
taboo single mom
his dad was in the gangs
and we started the Black Eyed Peas
and we live the what wait how how do we
do this guys no one believed in US
now we're playing Super Bowls World Cups
multiple Grammys
taking care of our families
no bro like this is
the biggest blessing
one could imagine loneliness how can I
be lonely I'm with my best friends
so why change
because I live 10 years from now I've
always seen 10 years from now
always
I don't know what it was
but when I was 13 I'm like I'm gonna buy
you a house
how old was I when I bought my mama
house
a little off I was 20
6.
I wanted to do it well I still did it
well then 10 years from there
I was like Ma how about everyone else in
the list we still our aunts our uncles
and our niece or my Grandma we're still
at the projects we're still going back
to the projects on holidays
we need we need to do a whole Exodus she
was like that's what you want to do
twink moved everybody out
um
and when I got everyone else out I'm
like well I gotta go back to the
neighborhood because there's people that
we grew up with
and they have kids now
let's start a robotics program there
start a computer science program there
so that when they in a college prep
program so that when they graduate
college they have skills that are needed
not just send kids to college so that
when they graduate they have debt at a
diploma
so we did that
and there's purpose so I want to be
purposeful so if I could see 10 years
from now okay
at some point in time my tenure
looking around the corner
one day I'll be 70.
one day I'll be Tom Jones age I'll be
80.
I'm like I I just stopped
I don't pass it on
that's what happens here
no that's not responsible
you know it's not it's not that's not a
responsible thing to do
so you gotta pass on knowledge you got
to pass on
gifts
for me it's a gift
the little kid on the bike
you know have good intentions I wanted
it's all for the good
um
and I wanna I wanna pass it on
you said you're living 10 years in the
future of five years in the future there
must be a cost to that when people talk
and you know spiritual people talk about
what pieces and happiness is they talk
about presence you strike me as someone
from what you've said that is my
struggle with the concept of being
present when you're five years in the
future and this kind of leads into a
point where people talk about the
tortured creative that is like very you
know cognitively
um active how does how does one square
being a creative that's living five
years in the future with peace happiness
presence and calm
and and what's your story in that regard
like I said
we're assuming that a proton a neutron
an electron all should have the same
role
to make an atom
in actuality they all have different
roles
and the moment an electron acts like a
proton
then an atom's not an atom anymore
so I got out of my predicament
because I didn't live in my current
reality
had I lived in my current reality I
would still be in my reality that was
constructed for me so I had to live in
this realm that was dreamed of
and my whole premise was to manifest
that dream with strategy so I had to
I had to
live as if it was real
I had to live like I already moved my
mom out to projects I had to live like
this gang doesn't want me
I'm no use for this gang
why even get initiated in being
and live that gang life
let me just keep wearing these suits
because these suits that my mom made me
I was my attire for the world that I'm
going to be living in
you have to live you if you living in
some place that you know that you don't
belong you know you don't belong there
why are you stuck in that
so in my mind I have to
always been that way unfortunately I
can't change how my makeup is
so I'm constantly if it got me out of
that it's gonna get me out of this and
where we are right now my people that
live in communities that reflect where I
come from are still in some version of
that
so in 2008 I started my Foundation
started with 65 students and I and my
gut was like yo
let me surround them with robotics and
computer science skill sets so I went
out in the world absorbed these these
skill sets these tools met
um Jack dangerman from esri met Dean
Cayman from uh Deca and first robotics
Lorraine Powell jobs from college track
my vision was to take these three
independent entities
duct tape them together to make a
cluster to give a new type of
project-based learning to kids 65 kids
that's 65 kids from 2008 to now now we
serve 15 almost 15 000 students in Los
Angeles we've sent kids to Dartmouth to
Brown to Stanford to Georgetown because
in 2008 I was living right now
I knew that because the way technology
was going
that kids in the inner cities are going
to be
super
um conflicted with the way the world's
going and the amount of jobs that are
going to disappear
I thought I was just going to be like
blue collar jobs I don't think it's
gonna be white collar jobs
I don't think kids in the suburbs were
going to be you know impacted by
you know this nude
this new digital age
like we've seen the last one but this
generative stuff yo bro
thank God we were doing what we're doing
in 2008. thank God we have you know
a fleet
um
a herd of amazing
Engineers out of the out of you know the
inner cities of LA and now we want to
scale that so 2030 yeah I'm living there
right now because there's still work to
do
I was listening to one of your songs um
before you arrived here and it was very
curious
man that's just literally
it was something I think this one was
called be nice
oh yeah it's called be nice and when I
started looking into the song Looking
about what you'd said around that song
you said I was on a dip in the low part
of a roller coaster
and you wrote that song because it
helped you to change your vibration but
also to help other people change their
vibrations the dip on the low part of a
roller coaster what are the things in in
your life that have caused that dip in
the lower part of the roller coaster I
think men but particularly black men we
don't always talk about are mental
health or the dip in the low part of the
roller coaster so I was super
I thought it was wonderful that you um
you've made a song about that but also
you were speaking so openly about that
oh I was reflecting all night in my 1993
18 year old so
fat fat uh
that path was the hardest path that I've
in my life
18.
18 was the hardest
because it was uh 30 years ago
this time 30 years ago
it was March when I had like a
it was March of 1993 when I
felt something that I've never felt
before just like
distortion
I felt uh that's a perfect word for it
dis-ease
and disease vibrationally
is this is
like a disease
on a vibrational level
like the word disease is really dis-ease
of molecular cellular
where you're vibrating
um
there's no Harmony
or since of your vibrational field
no matter how you look at it
and in this case you have a vibration
and thought
and I was vibrating off
and when you're vibrating off you're
dark
you're vibrating off you panic inks
you're hypertension your hyperactivity
is
um
off tilt
um and so from March till about
August
was a very very turbulent time for me
when I was 18.
and there's nothing wrong with being
emotional
and when you're creative you're always
sensitive like you're hyper sensitive
that's a part of creativity like you
feel
you feel too much
um and I feel too much I empathize
hardcore
um
I'm the guy in the aloe vera that talks
to strangers I'm the guy that's like
some I was walking down the street came
out of Tesco somebody's like well I am
I'm like hey what's up
oh I don't mean to bug you I'm like
that's cool but straight up conversation
for like 30 minutes with random
strangers I like that because I don't I
don't ever want to
ignore
folks that
I could shed light on or
they could shed light to me you never
know what little nuggets that you give
or receive
um
so that song that lyric was just
remembering reminding myself of like
what that
what that period was like for me it was
a very very like
coming of age
I was
and I didn't have a a man in my life but
do a father in my life to guide me
through that my mom did that which
probably made me even
Ultra feminine
which is no I have no shame of being
super feminine
you know I remember in the 90s
we we don't have
to support in the LGBT community like
now than we did then
so growing up in the 90s we're like are
you gay like
like a lot of people question
if I was because I was feminine I'm
still feminine
I sit the way I sit I act the way I act
my mannerisms are my mom's
but it was a it was a very uh
and I'm strong with my my femininity I
think it's a superpower
but um
that and when when you know who you are
when you when you love who you are how
you are how you vibe
that's what it's about I like girls
um never was attracted to men
I'm attracted to females
but I'm feminine
what caused that chapter in your life do
you know what that that dark chapter in
your life was there a clear causal
Distortion is a better word distortion
that chapter in your life where you had
distortion
what weed weed okay
yeah it was the uh
it's chemicals you said shame and guilt
as well you said use those words yeah I
was shameful because
I did something that I knew hurt my mom
right
you know like
you were smoking
and that her head hanging low like did I
do it what is my son out there doing
you know but trouble is he getting into
what is it going to lead to I saw her
panic I felt her panic I felt her worry
I felt her concern
do you still do you still have have you
had moments of distortion since
it's usually when um when you make
errors you hurt people
indirectly
um clumsily
irresponsible
when you when when you let people down
that you love when I let people down
that I love
I distort
is Distortion different from depression
and your definition
is there a difference oh yeah big
difference
Distortion leads to depression okay like
um
let's take this water
right
and this metal cup
if I fill it up to the top
um
and I don't move this table the water is
still
no matter how I fill it up it could be
straight to the top
if you don't interrupt the table the
water is not going to spill
Distortion is when I start to shake the
table
and if I shake the table fast enough it
could shatter the glass
it could crack it if I shake this at the
right frequency
that doesn't disrupt the table
but can mess up the object
shattering the glass or or obstructing
with the form of this is depression
shaking the table causing it to spill is
distortion
have you experienced anxiety before a
lot of creative speak to anxiety and
when are you thinking about that shaking
table it made me feel of
it gave me that and the the thing that I
could liken it to was anxiety
unfortunately it comes with the
territory of
um
futurist futurism
you are experiencing something that
hasn't happened yet
because your imagination is already
created
plausible
like
realistic
scenarios
and you're already feeling the emotion
so that unfortunately comes with the
territory of having a hyper imagination
and living over there does not mean that
you live in anxiety Then no
if you live in the future because once
you're aware of that
then you know that's what it is
it's like
the difference between the shower and
the rain
people run in the Wayne and stand in the
shower it's the difference between
bikinis
and draws
people go to the beach
when nothing on
but get afraid
when you see them in their underwear
expectations right it's expectations
it's like once you're aware of you
getting wet you ain't tripping once you
wear that you're going to the beach with
nothing on you're not tripping
so once I'm aware that I'm thinking over
there
I don't have to have emotions there okay
so the moment I start having a motion
for future casting then I'm doing it
wrong
the the anxiety comes when it's things
that are happening that you didn't
control
and you're now having emotions because
your imagination is now thinking of the
outcomes of things
that are out of your control
now when you're future casting and
you're seeing stuff you are controlling
looking around the corner I am purposely
looking there and then putting my
imagination to work on thinking what do
I have to do now strategically
between now 5 10.
FYI FYI is world's brand new app which
is launch now and the whole purpose of
the FYI is to help creators organize
collaborate and communicate in one place
rather than having all of these
different communication channels and
digital assets spread across all of
these different products that we might
use today yeah I had this problem last
night I was on like Monday over here to
do list over here I'm on Google clouds
over here Google Sheets here and I and
when I opened up FYI this morning I can
see from where we're on the road map
looking into the future how having all
of that in one space with AI as kind of
the the agent to power a lot of the the
knowledge work I guess is a really
special combination
um FYI is now available on the App Store
I got it this morning
um everybody should go and check it out
and I'm really excited if you're
starting here what the roadmap looks
forward for the future because I can see
the mission
um so fyi.ai is like we're at 1.0 4.0 I
do you understand how awesome of a
platform FYI is going to be it's also
equipped with
elliptical curve cryptography
methodologies because during covert nfts
and blockchain told us that you know
protect your assets I mean here's the
key but why isn't the same type of key
architecture and and product structure
how come it's not for my data on
Messengers
why am I not given the key to our own my
digital assets
when my digital assets are the data
itself
why is it just for nfts and crypto
so on FYI yes there's Messengers that
are encrypted end to end but where's the
key
if you're not issued a key
that the company itself
doesn't have
we ensure that your data and your stuff
is your stuff
what is yours is yours
how you speak is how you speak
and when it comes to Ai and mimic
machines
none of us own our face and none of us
own our voice I own the publishing to my
songs you could copyright and you could
create ndas to protect your IP but when
it comes to you
every human being
walking in the age of AI
who owns our Essence and our likeness
then why aren't we talking about that
enough
the Drake AIS yeah it's it's it was a
buzz and it's still going to continue to
buzz
but shouldn't Drake own his likeness in
his essence
why is that legal
why is it legal that Biggie Smalls is
wrapping a Tupac verse that was actually
about him
like why
is that I can't take a Nike Swoosh
Nike owns a swoosh but I don't own my
face in my voice
Beyonce don't own her face from her
voice but Adidas own stripes
something's not right for people
so as FYI grows that encryption key 1.0
versus 5.0 the vision that we have what
we want to go how we need the community
to help us get there
I want to build the people's tool
I want to build a company that where
people own their data a hundred percent
of it I am not my identity to my
driver's license and my my uh social
security number and my passport I'm my
data on my searches I'm my freaking
spell check I am my voice I am my facial
unlocked with the Machine Vision I am
all that stuff
on my location on my address book
it could predict me
but why can't I have power of that
why why I could say I want to weigh 194
pounds by
November 24th 2024. I currently weigh
210 pounds
which app would you like to use you
can't do that right now
there's no aspirational GPS
and for aspirational GPS that means the
system has to be mine not me have access
to a system
I have a record deal
because at one point in time it was
expensive to record now recording is
ubiquitous everybody could do it so why
do I have a record deal so what is
luxury when it comes to
what's premium what's the highest way of
creating at some point in time making
films and recording music was the
highest level of creating painting for
the freaking for the uh for the for the
monarchy or for the church was the
highest level of creating
now you can just do it on your phone but
the highest level of creating right now
is building models to build models and
compute expensive
so tomorrow people are going to be
training their own models
right that's an unheard of deal right
now like we we know the folks that are
spinning out models of these companies
but soon
compute's going to come down
and there's going to be new models
that are going to be just as powerful as
GPT
some 15 year old right now
it's dreaming right now when they're 25
that person
is going to have his own motto
and his own company
and it's going to be
morally sound for people in the
communities
because greed not not saying that the
models right now are greedy I'm not
saying that but watch what happens in
we're going to be driven by love because
the concept that we had and that we're
baking it off of with Terminator that's
not sustainable
that's not that's fear
and if you're going to base it off of
movies then go Star Wars not Terminator
Star Wars there's multiple models
there's multiple robots they all speak
different [__] languages but there's
Jedis
and Jedi is a different yes there was a
dark force yes there was siths but
there's [__] Jedis yeah and if this
is gonna take us to where we are better
humans to one another then [__] bring
it
because we can't get any worse than we
already are with one another
and I'm speaking that as a black person
we've seen what people can do to people
it can't get any more worse
so bring it the optimism bring it let's
be better people let's love better let's
empathize better let's freaking serve
better let's care better
right let's use the tool for that
because if we're mimicking
that's what they're fearful of people
are fearful of what people do yeah
people are gripped by AI at the moment
um they're terrified they are excited
where do you sit and if you if you were
talking to those kids in the inner city
about Ai and what they need to know
about it
um what would you be saying
if I go to the inner city
I'm telling kids
hey
our whole entire life has been set up
for us to fail
our investment for education has that
they've undermined our investment to
where other neighborhoods are getting a
bigger investment for their education
than us
the way they've zoned our communities we
have liquor stores next to check cashing
next to bad food next to bad food
our teachers are not being you know
invested in to teach us the things that
we need to learn we have no financial
literacy
so when we get our checks we cash our
checks and then we spend it on bad stuff
our understanding of money is to spend
it to pay bills we're not even taught to
grow it
we've been set up to fail
AI didn't do that people did that
now here's a tool for us
to solve our problems ourselves now
grab it
while you can
and we are now our own Calvary
right because the people that are afraid
are not the people here
we've already went through the worst and
survived the worst conditions of life
are these folks afraid
oh
oh those but the ones that are
responsible for our zoning and got it
okay cool now let's let's build a better
world
let's educate ourselves with this tool
let's understand that it is a tool let's
understand that there's these biases
there let's try to solve those biases
so that what is the ultimate dream my
Ultimate Dream is like wow we all know
this wave we see it coming
it could be good or it could be bad
it's going to be good when we're mindful
of what our contributions are to prepare
people for this wave
we have to prepare folks
and got to do information inspiration
preparation
motivation
and um
you know
mentorship
so that they can activate their
creativity
to unearth tomorrow's Industries because
this wave is going to topple yesterday's
Industries today's Industries
if you're a lawyer
and you work at a law firm and you do
redlining on contracts that's not what
you're doing in 2030.
if you're an accountant and you're
counting
counting beans
and
penny pinching that's not what you're
doing in 2030.
if you're a cashier
at a at a retail you're probably not
doing that 2030. if you're a bus driver
Uber driver taxi driver
that's not what you're doing in 2030.
because you're seeing
the construct of what tomorrow is now
you're dealing with machines that could
go and pivot from subject to subject go
deep to subjects in ways that people
can't
writing songs making pictures mid
Journeys freaking crazy
it's the most amazing tool that ever
like yo mid Journeys nuts for people
that don't know mid journey is a tool
that uses um text to create generative
images of whatever you type in in
seconds so if you're a marketer
if you're like a artist that works for a
brand
if you're an agency
that works for brands
this technology is going to give super
creatives agency so why do they need
agencies
just the vast
transformation and for hyper creatives
that now they just need
a new tool to help them like and just
birth stuff
it's a new Renaissance
the ultimate
the Ultimate Dream if you're preparing
up a section of the world that's whose
problems have always been ignored
to now go out and solve those problems
with this tool
are you using this tool to make songs
you know it's gonna make better songs
than you
it's Pac-Man right now we ain't even got
the Halo
it's we're in freaking Super Mario
Brothers we even got to Call of Duty yet
this thing's gonna make better songs
than you soon bro the song's out already
a pretty dope I've talked about that in
this podcast before that Drake song with
the no but the Drake song Still required
somebody to sing it and then they layer
a plug-in over it to make it sound like
Drake oh I heard a song that didn't I
heard yo this new tech
out of here but more importantly I saw
it in 2010
in my mind's eye I was like yo no no no
if I'm in this computer that means it's
compute wait what
I'm in the computer
making music
I'm not I'm not a musician like Prince
or freaking Stevie Wonder
I make music because I can make the
computer make music
and with machine learning that means
eventually the computer is going to
remember how I made it to make music
and eventually just make it itself maybe
even publish it itself
maybe even not even tell you no no no no
wait like
say if you're making something on Adobe
you're also Pro you're making Adobe
smarter at creating
records so you know why does why does
Adobe eventually need the person hitting
the buttons or with the ideas when it
can learn from a million of those and
then it can also track the outcome does
that become a Smash Hit and it's going
okay so when they did this to me you
know what I mean the film oppenheimer's
into Cinemas shortly and the Oppenheimer
was the guy who was in the world war was
told to go out to make the nuclear bomb
and that is almost what I'm scared about
in this current AI race where
China or Russia or another country
versus the US they're all in a race to
create the most powerful artificial
intelligence system but also to use it
for defensive purposes but also
attacking purposes
um offensive purposes and when an
intelligence is a hundred times smarter
than the smartest human that world is
the world where I go
are we do we realize what we're getting
ourselves into is this another up and
Homer moment where we create something
that has the capabilities to destroy
Humanity
um
that's what's I haven't figured out yet
but for everything that we create
a hammer we don't make hammers a hammer
can kill how many you know a screwdriver
a vehicle an airplane electricity
um lights
everything that we advance hmm
the first caveman that found a freaking
flame on a branch
imagine all the folks at some point in
time when they first had a branch with
flame on it they were like yo you can
burn the village down and some Villages
burned down because that was the
capacity of that weapon the capacity of
this weapon is it can think for itself
and take down civilization and that's
the the difference is like going from
the hammer which can probably take a
couple people out can't think for itself
and then you go right up to artificial
intelligence where it has a propensity
to be smarter than all of us
and you know if programmed with
malicious intent
I like your optimism yeah but but at the
same time like
who's responsible for the people that
are living in villages in Africa that
are clearly living under an abundance of
resources but can't benefit from those
but is that hey I did that no that's
humans humans at that so what you're
saying it's not it's not the AI that
you're afraid of 100 yes it's people the
people it's the people maybe AI is to
push us to love
because we can't outlogic logic if Will
I Am has it that's what will happen if
Putin has it I'm not sure
like a hammer like if you would create
something dope with a hammer Putin might
hit me with it like
I would create something like MC Hammer
yeah exactly but can't touch this
but yeah we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're leaving it for and
the person that's left this question for
you I think you know them
um the question is what would be your
superpower if you were if you could be a
superhero and why
it feels quite somebody asked me that
yeah should I say who is Rita Aura
oh Rita Ora that's uh she's my fave I
love Rita but she didn't know it was for
you get the frick out she just writes it
in the book I didn't tell her who's
coming next oh wow so usually I don't
tell people who's written it but I
figured you might know her so yeah I've
worked with her many years and recorded
songs that we never released but yeah I
love Rita she was sat there yesterday
she's awesome
it's gonna sound super like uh cheesy
or corny
I would be Particle Man
my my superpower will be
I could
I can influence
particles to vibrate
harmoniously
because that's the concept of love
it's when everything's vibrating
harmoniously
and there's uh that would be the
ultimate superpower are you vibrating
harmoniously right now in life
and life at the moment
no
um
because I feel too much
and when you feel
it affects your vibration
um and then it takes a while to
make sense of
what you're absorbing
you rinse out and that and you repeat
but in that process of absorb rinse
repeat
um
you learn more about environments that
you're in people that you're around
and your curiosity my curiosity
um
and search for knowledge
like why did I go to CERN
I'm gonna go next in two weeks and then
they send me emails all the time hey
Will we're here you're going to be in
Geneva you want to come down to
CERN
um just come see our
you know advancements and learn more
I just like to know as much as possible
I don't
and when you in my pursuit of knowing
um causes some distortion
oh
there's nothing wrong with a little bit
Jimi Hendrix
of distortion
can't just be consumed by it
sorry with amplification comes some
Distortion as you amplify
and to get the word out or to get the
vibe out
you know just got to be aware of of how
you're amplifying
um
not turn up too loud or too fast
and that's you know double entender is
on turnout
um but uh
yeah so no I'm not um
that would be my superpower is though
but the name particle man's whack
particles but
um yeah vibration manuals I don't know
Vibes man I don't know yeah um super
Vibes yeah yeah super Vibes on a
particle level
and that will be like as soon as as soon
as as soon as a [__] wants to
[__] around and do some wow [__] he just
like zapping with some super Vibes and
change
alter the particles because that's where
we're all made of that down every
molecule every cell
um and if you could
and if you could put Consciousness on a
particle level
that's a uh some awesome sauce
well thank you um in many respects you
are super Vibes because you've created a
lot of awesome stuff and you've brought
um brought people's Vibes into harmony
certainly mine with your with all that
you've created with your art with your
creativity walking through your studio
your office in Los Angeles was a real
trip into
a decade's time it was a glimpse into
the future in many respects I remember
looking at some of the stuff you'd
created in there the backpacks and I
remember all of these dope inventions
and that I saw in that space and
to meet you it kind of makes sense now
when you talk about living in the future
with that of course comes
um a disharmony I think like and that's
what you you've spoken to as well I
think a lot of creatives have that
feeling of like dis-ease
um
I think it comes with wanting to bring
about the future and that impatience
that comes with all of that I really do
hope you find the the personal Harmony
that you spoke of this the the next
passing it on to somebody I really do
hope you find that because I think I do
agree you'd make an absolutely
incredible father oh thanks because
you're so you're so lucky you're so
built on love which I think is a Real
Testament to your mother thank you thank
you for being here today it's a real
honor to get to spend some time with you
you're someone that admire greatly for
all of the creative reasons I've said
but also just as a human being
quick one you guys know that for years
now my office is quite literally been
everywhere on a plane in the back of my
car in a terminal in an airport or on a
train you name it I've probably worked
there ever since I started my first
business at 19 years old I've been
working on the move all I need is Wi-Fi
a desk and my headphones and I'm set and
one of the places that has always had my
back when I'm struggling to find an
office is wework I've been using wework
for years now whether it's in Manchester
Chester London Manhattan or La wework is
easy it literally requires no thinking
there's no stress of finding the perfect
working location wework does it all for
you plenty of desk space meeting rooms
collaboration spaces drinks snacks it's
all there so for your next remote
working trip away from the office or if
you want a new Fresh space to work in
then don't just work anywhere wework
might just be your answer and you can
get 25 off your first six months of
rework all access by using Code CEO
works that's one word CEO works and to
redeem this offer visit we.com
CEO Works quick one if you've been
listening to this podcast for some time
one of the recurring messages you've
heard over and over and over again
especially when we first had that
conversation with Tim Spector is about
the importance of Greens in our diet and
a while ago I started pressing my
friends at hewell to come out with a
product that did exactly that allowed
you to have all those greens the
vitamins and minerals you need in a
drink and after several several several
months of iterations and processes they
released this product called huel Daily
Greens which is now one of my favorite
products from heel because it tastes
great and it fills that very important
nutritional Gap that I had in my diet
the problem is
it launched in the U.S and it sold out
straight away and became a Smash Hit for
fuel for the rare reasons I've described
it's now back in stock in the United
States but it's not here in the UK yet
so if you're a UK listener which I know
a lot of you are it's not yet available
so
let's all attack you let's DM them
everywhere we can and tell them to bring
huel Daily Greens to the UK this is the
product when it is available in the UK
I'm going to let you know first but
until then let's spam their DMs
[Music]
oh
foreign